<!-- Automatically generated by Export-PptxToGitPITCHME.ps1
https://gist.github.com/valdeza/27845c35d14c833af63e449e5f055204 -->

<!-- Slide 1 -->
<!--[Rectangle 2]-->
Web Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking  
Capture the Flag

<!--[TextBox 4]-->
Copyright 2014, Secure Ideas
Version 1Q14

<!--[TextBox 2]-->
Professionally Evil   
Web Application 
Penetration Testing   
101.1

Note:
<!--[Rectangle 7]-->
1

<!--[Rectangle 2]-->

<!--[Rectangle 3]-->
Welcome to the Secure Ideas PEWAPT101.6.  Today we will work within teams to perform a web application penetration test.  This will be against an example set of web applications as are typically seen in corporate networks.  We will use the methodology and tools we have covered over the last 5 days.

---

<!-- Slide 2 -->
<!--[Rectangle 2]-->
Course Outline

<!--[Rectangle 3]-->
- Day 1: Attacker's View, Pen-Testing and Scoping
- Day 2: Recon & Mapping
- Day 3: Server-Side Vuln Discovery
- Day 4: Server-Side Vuln Discovery Cont.
- Day 5: Exploitation
- **Day 6: Capture the Flag**

<!--[Right Arrow 3]-->

Note:
<!--[Rectangle 7]-->
2

<!--[Rectangle 2]-->

<!--[Rectangle 3]-->
In this class, we will learn the practical art of web application penetration testing. 

On Day 1, we will examine the attacker's perspective, and learn why it is important for us to build and deploy web application with the attacker's perspective in mind. We will also cover the pieces of a penetration test and how to scope and prepare for one.  Finally, we will explore the methodology that will be covered through the rest of class.
 
During Day 2, we will step through the process that successful attackers use to exploit applications, focusing specifically on the reconnaissance and mapping stages of the process.  This will give us the foundation we need to later control the application.

On Day 3, we will build upon that foundation and start discovering the various weaknesses within the applications.  As penetration testers, we will map out the attack vectors that we are going to use against this application. These discoveries will be the basis for the exploitation phase.

On Day 4, we will continue our discovery focusing on client side components such as Flash and Java.  We will also explore the client-side scripting in use within our applications.

On Day 5, we will launch the attacks that we planned and created during the previous three sections. We will also cover the next steps for students and where they should go from here.

On Day 6, we will be performing a web application pen-test within a capture the flag event.

---

<!-- Slide 3 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Final Workshop Goals


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- We will apply the methodology we have learned
- Instead of one at a time, we will use the tools in combination
- While this is an example test
	- The vulnerabilities are modeled after real systems found during actual pen-tests
- Have Fun!

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
Today's goals are to work through our methodology in a full web application pen-test.  Instead of each tool being used as in our previous exercises, we will be able to move between them and use them in combination.  This will allow us to get a better feel for the tools, their strengths and their weaknesses.  

While the test we are doing is an example, it is based on real vulnerabilities and applications we have found in the real world.  This example was designed to fit within a single day, which does mean that some of it has to be contrived.

Most importantly, please have fun!

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 4 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Organization of Today


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- Start with this lecture
	- Describes the scenario
- Your team will then start the penetration test
- Around 2:30, we will conduct a briefing
- We will discuss
	- Vulnerabilities existing
	- Methods used to find them

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
Today will be broken into three parts. The first is this lecture which will set up the test and explain your scope.  The second part will be your team performing the test.  Around 2:30 PM we wrap up the testing.  In the last part we will debrief through the application test.  You will present some of your findings to the instructor and then the instructor will walk through anything that was missed and explain the entire test.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 5 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Teams


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- Work in a team
	- Between two and five people
- Have each team member record their findings and steps
- Have regular "meetings"
	- Review what you have
	- Compare notes
	- Adjust and plan your next steps

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
Please work in teams as we recommend that you do in your regular testing.  This allows you to combine skill sets and viewpoints to better assess the test.  We recommend at least two people and no more than five.  We find that more than five becomes overkill in this environment.  People start getting left out.

Have each person record their findings and steps.  But make sure that you have regular meetings to compare notes and make sure that you are working together.  This is VERY important.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 6 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# RFP


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- PEWAPT 101 Inc. requires an internal penetration test of their applications
- PEWAPT 101 Inc. is world-wide distributor of towels
	- Definitely a most useful item!
- PEWAPT 101 Inc. is concerned that employee data may be discoverable through various web applications
	- This data may be scattered through the network
- The domain is PEWAPT101.local
	- Ensure you aren't running the class target VM!

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
PEWAPT 101 Inc. has put out an RFP for a web application penetration test.  They are a distributor of towels and are concerned that their employees' data may be discovered using exploits against their web applications.  This data may be scattered through the various web applications within PEWAPT 101 Inc.  Your job is to find it.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 7 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Project Scope


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- Internet and intranet web applications
- Social engineering is allowed, but the targets are VERY aware
	- Users MAY surf URL's you inject
- All web applications on the target network of 10.42.5.2-253 are in scope
	- Non-web app services are not in-scope

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
To determine the risk level of having this information disclosed, they have requested a test of all of their web applications.  This included Internet and intranet facing applications.  Social engineering is allowed but keep in mind that the targets are very security conscious and aware of the ongoing test.  But any URLs or injected code may be browsed.

Any web application in the network range of 10.42.5.2-253 is within scope of this test.  Non-web app services are not. 

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 8 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Additional Network Notes


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- PEWAPT 101 Inc operates a DNS server at 10.42.5.24
- You may use this DNS server
	- When the exercise begins, try a zone transfer
- There may be targets not in the zone file
	- Look for linked servers

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
There is a DNS server at 10.42.5.24.  This is both the DNS server PEWAPT 101 Inc uses and the one that you should use for the test.  Remember that some targets will not be in the zone file but may be found through linked server searches.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 9 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Rules of Engagement


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- No denial of service attacks
- No "dangerous" attacks
	- Deleting files or data is not allowed
	- No performance hogging attacks
		- This is a production system
	- When you gain access, don't delete data, items or add false flags
- Only the target applications are in scope
	- <span style="text-decoration: underline;">***Do NOT attack other students***</span>
	- Keep in mind XSS attacks should only steal cookies as they will attack others

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
There are a few things you cannot do.  

No denial of service attacks.  We want everyone to be able to reach the systems.

No "dangerous" attacks.  We don't want to delete files and/or data.  We also want to recognize that this is a production system, so resource hogging attacks should not be run.

Do NOT attack other testers!

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 10 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Additional Rules of Engagement


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- You are allowed to create new accounts
	- Do not change other users' passwords
- You are allowed to write to files and install software
	- Do not uninstall software or harden the applications
- Remember that this is both a production system and others are testing it

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
You are allowed to create accounts, but please do not change other users' passwords.  This may prevent another student from getting through the game.

Installing applications and writing to files is allowed, as long as the applications and files do not cause issues for the production applications.  You may want to configure your injected files to only answer to your team. ?

Keep in mind that this is a production system and that others are also testing the applications.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 11 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Capture the Flag Goal


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- Discover as many vulnerabilities as possible
	- Evaluate their risk
	- Explain how to exploit them
- Gather all of the employee records
- This includes:
	- Name
	- Social Security
	- Salary
	- Phone number
	- Address
- This data will be scattered around the applications

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
You have a couple goals here.  First, find as many vulnerabilities as you can.  Please keep in mind that not all vulnerabilities will help you retrieve the data, but they are important to your target.  Evaluate the risk and explain how you can exploit any that you find.

Gather all of the employee records.  These records contain the name of the employee, their social security number, salary, address and phone number.  This data is not all in one place.  You will have to exploit multiple systems to gather the data.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 12 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Winning the Challenge


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- You must show the instructor the employee records
- Not everyone will get all of the data
- If we reach 12:00 PM and you don't have any data yet, let the instructor know, and he or she will provide some guidance

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
To "win" the game, you must show the instructor the employee records.   Keep in mind that not everyone will gather all of the data, as this test is very limited in time; but if it gets to be around noon and you haven't gotten any records, let the instructor know and he or she will give you guidance.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 13 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# To Win, You MustTrack Your Work


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- As part of this penetration test, you must record how you retrieved each data element
	- No written report is needed, but we will all be presenting our work
- You must be able to show us the data, explain how each point was retrieved, any flaws seen and the risk level of each flaw

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
You must also track your work!  Keep records as to how you retrieved each data element and all of the vulnerabilities you find.  While you are not required to present a written report, the instructor will quiz you to ensure that you could explain what you found, did and the risks seen.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 14 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# Any Questions?


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- If you have any questions, now is the time to ask!
- Ask any question you would like.
- But the instructor may not answer as the purpose of the test is to answer some of your questions
- The instructor will be available through out the test
	- Think of them as a client contact!

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
While any questions you have are welcome throughout the day, if you have any, please ask them now.  If you are wondering something, it is guaranteed that someone else is also.

The instructor will accept any question, but they may not be able to answer them as it may reveal too much information.  Treat them as you would you customer contact.  They will be available throughout the day.

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

<!-- Slide 15 -->
<!--[Title 1]-->
# You Now HavePermission to Begin


<!--[Content Placeholder 2]-->
- You now have permission to begin the attack against the target applications on 10.42.5.2-253
- Follow the Rules of Engagement
- If and when you win, notify the instructor
- Have Fun!

Note:
<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Image Placeholder 1]-->

<!--[Notes Placeholder 2]-->
You now have permission to begin the attack against the target applications on 10.42.5.2-253

Follow the Rules of Engagement.

If and when you win, notify the instructor.

Have Fun!

<!-- SKIPPED: [Slide Number Placeholder 3]-->

---

